STEP 1
SHOW THE WORLD

Get creative and make your own buzz

How to publicize your hack jam

While some hack jams will have only a few learners in attendance, other events could potentially be larger in scale. This section is to help you create publicity efforts surrounding a larger scale event.

5 - 10 talking points

You and your core planning team will want to speak publicly about the work that you are doing. It is important to communicate your message using consistent language. One way to do this is to craft 5-10 sentences or ideas that help you to explain the focus, structure and goals of your event. We've included talking points to use below -- feel free to borrow or put in your own words.

Craft a news release

A news release is usually a one-page document describing your event, your organization and anything noteworthy that you might want to communicate. This document should be carefully written as reporters will refer to it when writing their stories. Be sure to include links to websites and other resources connected to your event. Finally, remember to include clear contact information so that members of the media know who to follow up with.

Beef up your contacts

Create a mailing list and send out the news release at least a week before the event. As well as mainstream media outlets in your community — newspapers, TV and radio — think about other outlets and organizations that potentially could spread the word about your hack jam. This might be parent groups, techie meet-ups, bloggers, podcasters, tweeters, etc. If any these contacts follow up with you, remember to be honest. Relying on your talking points will help guide you through the conversation or email. To be ready for the sorts of questions they’ll likely ask, see our list of Frequently Asked Questions.

Leverage social media

Show the world what you are up to with consistent posts to social media sites including: Facebook, Twitter, Flickr, YouTube/ Vimeo and blogs. Get creative and make your own buzz in these spaces. You can make your own promotional videos or how-to tutorials and publicize these on the Hackasaurus site and/or through your own distribution channels.


2011 by individual mozilla.org contributors. Content available under a Creative Commons license. http://www.mozilla.org/foundation/licensing/website-content.html